TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING 
The Telecommunications Engineering covers many disciplines apparently far from each other that have developed over the years from a common cultural basis. This Engineering field deals with the study, design, implementation, and management of communication networks (including the Internet), information transmission systems and devices, processing systems for voice, sound, data, images, and remote sensing. The Telecommunications Engineering allows to deliver applications and services to users anywhere in the world: e-commerce, real-time multimedia applications, secure e-banking, remote medical diagnostics, exchange of music and video on both fixed and mobile devices. Moreover advanced  technologies for the Earth surface monitoring and for oil exploration are developed within the Telecommunications Engineering area. Detailed information on the activities of Telecommunications Engineering can be found in the study program web site (http://commtech.dei.polimi.it/en/).



ENGINEERING OF COMPUTING SYSTEMS
The continuous development of computers and, more in general, of information technology has had an extraordinary impact on the productive, social and economic reality of recent years. These disciplines are now determining factors for culture and for the organization of modern businesses and social activities; indeed they encourage their transformation and innovation. It is in this scenario, which has changed significantly with the advent of new technologies, that the Computer Engineering Study Programme is positioned. Its goal is to train engineers and equip them with an extensive cultural preparation, enabling them to develop and use computer methods and tools with an engineering-oriented perception, and to face problems that are common within an extremely wide spectrum of applications. The Degree Programme in Computer Engineering will allow students to build professional profiles that are among the most required on the job market.



ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING
The Electronics Engineering program aims at providing students with a solid knowledge on the design, use and innovation of electronic circuits, electronic devices and electronic systems, to follow and guide over the years the evolution of this technology sector with competence and to promote it in the fields of human activity where advantages are envisaged. The goal of the study program is therefore to train professionals with a rich and solid scientific and technological preparation, mixing a strong background on the physical-chemical and mathematical aspects of most advanced technologies with the ability to develop and use the methods and tools specific from electronics to address issues common to a very wide range of applications.


ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Electrical Engineering is the engineering field that studies and applies of electricity, electromagnetism and electronics, with particular attention to electric power systems, electrical machines and drives, electronic power converters, electric systems for transportation, electric and electronic measurements, circuit theory and electromagnetic compatibility. The programme in Electrical Engineering encompasses all subjectd required to educate undergraduate and graduate students in Electrical Engineering.
Nowadays, societal and industrial growth is largely based on the availability of energy in a form that can be readily transformed into light, heat, movement, electromagnetic waves for data transmission and remote processing, electro-chemical activity. Electric energy represents the most efficient way to convert energy from primary energy sources and transport it to distant places. Its features make electricity unique for many activities in everyday life, ranging from household, industrial or service applications.
Electric energy is clean, easy to control and environment friendly. In our country more than one third of the consumed energy is converted into electric energy before its end use. Electric energy is a precious good that should not be wasted. To attain this goal, all related conversions, from initial production to end use, must be optimized. Presently, the electric energy field is undergoing significant changes that will make the future role of the electrical engineer more and more important as a key player in managing energy and protecting the environment.
The possible applications of the Electrical Engineering are so many that cannot be listed without forgetting some important ones. Its more significant topics go from electrical machines to electronic power converters, transformers, wide-area electrical transmission and distribution networks, electric systems for household and industrial applications, industrial automation, electric traction, heavy metallurgical industry, electromagnetic compatibility.
Production, transmission, distribution and rational and sustainable use of electric energy require B.Sc. and M.Sc. graduates in Electrical Engineering with solid capabilities in designing and managing electric systems and devices, as well as in analyzing and processing all related data. For instance, the need of exploiting renewable energy sources, such as sun and wind, by means of distributed generation that complement the traditional high-power hydro-electric and thermoelectric generation, implies a new way of designing and operating the electric distribution grid. In this field, a significant advancement is expected in the application of ICT techniques to the development of the future intelligent grid (Smart Grids).
Moreover, the ever increasing diffusion of complex and disturbance-sensitive equipment (such as, for example, data processing centers) requires an ever increasing level of quality of the electric supply that, in turn, requires new equipment to be studied and developed in order to attain a better immunity of the electrical appliances to disturbances and more reliable and fault-tolerant distribution networks.
The development of advanced fuel cells and storage systems will soon favor the development of a new generation of hybrid and electric vehicles and will significantly contribute to decreasing environment pollution and optimize the use of traditional and/or innovative energy sources. Moving from a regulated toward a de-regulated energy market will undoubtedly open new opportunities for customers, but will also imply new technical problems, whose solution could be found only by  highly-qualified Electrical Engineers.
These are the key topics of the Electrical Engineering programme. It is aimed at providing the necessary skills to handle all processes involved in the conversion, generation, transmission, distribution and final exploitation of the electric energy both in household and industrial applications. Particular attention is paid to the sustainability of the whole process, from both the financial and environmental points of view.
The Electrical Engineering has a long history and tradition (it was first established in 1886 at Politecnico di Milano) and is still providing a well-recognized contribution to the advancement of new technologies that are the key enablers of the industrial growth of the modern society.



